README.md, before:

# Electron + React + TanStack Router Application Setup Guide

A comprehensive guide for scaffolding a modern desktop application using Electron, React, TanStack Router, and optionally Java Spring Boot for backend services.

---

## 1. Create the Java Backend (Optional)

If you need a Java backend, generate one using [Spring Initializr](https://start.spring.io/) with your required dependencies.

---

## 2. Set Up the Electron Renderer using Vite + React

Create the frontend application:

```bash
npm create vite@latest frontend
```

Select React and TypeScript when prompted.

Install TanStack Router, Tailwind CSS, shadcn/ui, Storybook, and other dependencies as needed.

---

## 3. Restructure the Frontend Codebase

- Move React code → `src/renderer`
- Create Electron main process → `src/electron`
- Add a shared folder → `src/shared`

```
electron-app/
├── src/
│   ├── renderer/          # React UI code
│   │   ├── components/
│   │   ├── routes/
│   │   └── main.tsx
│   ├── electron/          # Electron main process
│   │   ├── main.ts
│   │   ├── preload.ts
│   │   ├── database.ts
│   │   ├── pathResolver.ts
│   │   ├── util.ts
│   │   └── tsconfig.json
│   └── shared/            # Shared utilities and types
├── dist-react/            # Built React application (gitignore)
├── dist-electron/         # Compiled Electron code (gitignore)
├── electron-builder.json
└── package.json
```

This creates a clean separation between the UI, desktop logic, and shared modules.

---

## 4. Update `vite.config.ts`

- TanStack Router is configured to auto-generate route trees
- Path aliases are set
- Dev server uses port 5123
- Build output is `dist-react`

```typescript
import { defineConfig } from "vite";
import react from "@vitejs/plugin-react";
import { TanStackRouterVite } from "@tanstack/router-vite-plugin";

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [react(), TanStackRouterVite()],
  server: {
    port: 5123,
  },
  build: {
    outDir: "dist-react",
  },
  resolve: {
    alias: {
      "@shared": "/src/shared",
      "@renderer": "/src/renderer",
    },
  },
});
```

---

## 5. Update `index.html`

Ensure the entry point matches your new structure:

```html
<script type="module" src="/src/renderer/main.tsx"></script>
```

---

## 6. Test the React Renderer

```bash
npm run dev
```

Confirm the UI runs on `http://localhost:5123`.

---

## 7. Install Electron and Native Modules

```bash
npm install electron electron-builder better-sqlite3 cross-env npm-run-all @types/better-sqlite3 electron-rebuild
```

---

## 8. Create the Electron Main Process

Inside `src/electron`, create:

- `main.ts`
- `tsconfig.json`

### `src/electron/main.ts` (with explanation comments)

```typescript
import { app, BrowserWindow } from "electron";
import path from "node:path";
import { isDev } from "./util.js";

// Creates the browser window instance where your React UI will load
function createWindow() {
  const win = new BrowserWindow({
    width: 800,
    height: 600,
    webPreferences: {
      nodeIntegration: false,
      contextIsolation: true,
    },
  });

  // Load from dev server in development, from built files in production
  if (isDev()) {
    win.loadURL("http://localhost:5123");
  } else {
    win.loadFile(path.join(app.getAppPath(), "/dist-react/index.html"));
  }
}

app.whenReady().then(() => {
  createWindow();

  // macOS-specific behavior: reopen a window if dock icon is clicked
  app.on("activate", () => {
    if (BrowserWindow.getAllWindows().length === 0) {
      createWindow();
    }
  });
});

// Quit when all windows are closed (except on macOS)
app.on("window-all-closed", () => {
  if (process.platform !== "darwin") {
    app.quit();
  }
});
```

---

## 9. Create `src/electron/tsconfig.json` (with comments)

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    // Enables strict type checking for safer TypeScript
    "strict": true,

    // Target modern JavaScript for Electron/Node
    "target": "ESNext",

    // Use NodeNext so Node.js-style imports work
    "module": "NodeNext",

    // Output for compiled Electron JS goes here
    "outDir": "../../dist-electron",

    // Skip type checking for .d.ts libs for faster builds
    "skipLibCheck": true,

    // Resolves modules using Node.js resolution rules
    "moduleResolution": "NodeNext"
  }
}
```

---

## 10. **IMPORTANT:** Update the Root TypeScript Configuration

Electron uses **two tsconfig layers**:

1. `electron-app/tsconfig.json` (root)
2. `src/electron/tsconfig.json` (local)

You **must** update the root `tsconfig.json` to ensure aliases work in both Electron and the renderer.

Example:

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "baseUrl": "./src",
    "paths": {
      "@shared/*": ["shared/*"],
      "@renderer/*": ["renderer/*"],
      "@electron/*": ["electron/*"]
    }
  },
  "exclude": ["node_modules", "dist-react", "dist-electron"]
}
```

This ensures:

- Electron main process can import shared modules cleanly
- Your preload scripts (if added later) also resolve paths
- VSCode and TypeScript understand your aliases globally

---

## 11. Update `package.json` (with explanatory comments)

```json
{
  "name": "your-app-name",
  "version": "0.0.0",
  "private": true,
  "description": "Your app description",
  "author": {
    "name": "Your Name"
  },

  // Required for Electron to know what file to run after build
  "main": "dist-electron/main.js",

  "type": "module",

  "scripts": {
    // Install native dependencies after npm install
    "postinstall": "electron-builder install-app-deps && npm run rebuild",

    // Rebuild native modules for Electron
    "rebuild": "electron-rebuild -f -w better-sqlite3",

    // Builds React + Electron TypeScript
    "build": "vite build && tsc",

    // Development: runs React server and Electron in parallel
    "dev": "npm-run-all --parallel dev:react dev:electron",

    // Development command for React UI
    "dev:react": "vite",

    // Development command for Electron main process
    "dev:electron": "npm run transpile:electron && cross-env NODE_ENV=development electron .",

    // Compiles TypeScript → JavaScript using the electron tsconfig
    "transpile:electron": "tsc --project src/electron/tsconfig.json",

    // Build distribution packages for each platform
    "dist:win": "npm run transpile:electron && npm run build && electron-builder --config electron-builder.json --win --x64",
    "dist:mac": "npm run transpile:electron && npm run build && electron-builder --config electron-builder.json --mac --arm64",
    "dist:linux": "npm run transpile:electron && npm run build && electron-builder --config electron-builder.json --linux --x64",

    "lint": "eslint",
    "test": "vitest run"
  }
}
```

---

## 12. Build and Run the Electron App

Build everything:

```bash
npm run build
```

You should now have:

- `dist-react/` → built React UI
- `dist-electron/` → compiled Electron code

Ensure both directories are **gitignored**.

Then run Electron in development mode:

```bash
npm run dev
```

This will start the React server and launch Electron with hot-reload support.

---

## 13. Configure TanStack Router for Electron (Hash History)

Because Electron doesn't use browser navigation, change to `createHashHistory()`:

```typescript
import { createHashHistory, createRouter } from "@tanstack/react-router";
import { routeTree } from "./routeTree.gen";

const router = createRouter({
  routeTree,
  defaultPreload: "intent",
  scrollRestoration: true,
  defaultStructuralSharing: true,
  defaultPreloadStaleTime: 0,

  // Key part for Electron: use hash-based history
  history: createHashHistory(),
});
```

📘 [TanStack Router History Types Documentation](https://tanstack.com/router/v1/docs/framework/react/guide/history-types)

---

## 14. Add Electron Builder to Package Application

To package the application for installation on Windows, Mac, or Linux, create `electron-builder.json`:

```json
{
  "appId": "com.yourcompany.yourapp",
  "icon": "./src/renderer/assets/app-icon.png",
  "productName": "Your App Name",
  "directories": {
    "output": "dist",
    "buildResources": "src/renderer/assets"
  },
  "files": [
    "dist-electron",
    "dist-react",
    "package.json",
    "!node_modules/@esbuild/**/*"
  ],

  // better-sqlite3 uses native C bindings, so it needs to be unpacked
  "asarUnpack": ["node_modules/better-sqlite3/**/*"],

  "nativeRebuilder": "sequential",
  "npmRebuild": true,
  "buildDependenciesFromSource": true,

  "win": {
    "target": ["nsis", "portable", "msi"]
  },
  "nsis": {
    "oneClick": false,
    "allowToChangeInstallationDirectory": true
  },
  "mac": {
    "target": ["dmg", "zip"]
  },
  "linux": {
    "target": ["AppImage", "deb"],
    "category": "Utility"
  }
}
```

Run `npm run dist:win` and it should package your application for windows.

---

## 15. Create Path Resolvers for Development and Production

### Create `src/electron/util.ts`

Determine what environment we are in:

```typescript
export function isDev(): boolean {
  return process.env.NODE_ENV === "development";
}
```

### Create `src/electron/pathResolver.ts`

Resolve paths for both development and production environments:

```typescript
import { app } from "electron";
import path from "path";
import fs from "node:fs";
import { isDev } from "./util.js";

/**
 * Get the database file path based on environment
 * Development: Store in project root
 * Production: Store in user data directory
 */
export function getDatabasePath(): string {
  if (isDev()) {
    // Dev: Store in project root
    return "app-database.db";
  } else {
    // Production: Store in user data directory
    const userDataPath = app.getPath("userData");

    // Ensure directory exists
    if (!fs.existsSync(userDataPath)) {
      fs.mkdirSync(userDataPath, { recursive: true });
    }

    return path.join(userDataPath, "app-database.db");
  }
}

export function getPreloadPath(): string {
  return path.join(
    app.getAppPath(),
    isDev() ? "." : "..",
    "/dist-electron/electron/preload.cjs"
  );
}

export function getUIPath(): string {
  return path.join(app.getAppPath(), "/dist-react/index.html");
}

export function getAssetPath(): string {
  return path.join(app.getAppPath(), isDev() ? "." : "..", "/src/assets");
}
```

Now when you run `npm run dev`, both the React server and Electron app will start. The Electron window will use the React dev server with hot reloading enabled.

---

## 16. Adding Database and Connection

Create `src/electron/database.ts` for initial database creation and optional seeding with SQLite3:

```typescript
import Database from "better-sqlite3";
import { getDatabasePath } from "./pathResolver.js";

let db: Database.Database | null = null;

/**
 * Initialize database schema
 * Creates all necessary tables if they don't exist
 */
function initSchema() {
  if (!db) return;

  // Create todos table
  db.exec(`
    CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS todos (
      id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT,
      title TEXT NOT NULL,
      description TEXT,
      completed INTEGER DEFAULT 0,
      priority TEXT DEFAULT 'medium',
      due_date TEXT,
      created_at TEXT DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
      updated_at TEXT DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
    )
  `);

  // 🔥 Create indexes for faster queries
  db.exec(`
    CREATE INDEX IF NOT EXISTS idx_todos_completed ON todos(completed);
    CREATE INDEX IF NOT EXISTS idx_todos_priority ON todos(priority);
    CREATE INDEX IF NOT EXISTS idx_todos_due_date ON todos(due_date);
  `);

  console.log("Database schema initialized");
}

/**
 * Seed the database with sample data
 * Only runs if tables are empty
 */
function seedDatabase() {
  if (!db) return;

  // Seed todos table if empty
  const todoCount = db.prepare("SELECT COUNT(*) as count FROM todos").get() as {
    count: number;
  };

  if (todoCount.count === 0) {
    const insertTodo = db.prepare(
      "INSERT INTO todos (title, description, completed, priority, due_date) VALUES (@title, @description, @completed, @priority, @due_date)"
    );

    const insertManyTodos = db.transaction((todos) => {
      for (const todo of todos) insertTodo.run(todo);
    });

    insertManyTodos([
      {
        title: "Complete project documentation",
        description: "Write comprehensive README and API documentation",
        completed: 0,
        priority: "high",
        due_date: "2025-12-15",
      },
      {
        title: "Review pull requests",
        description: "Review and merge pending PRs from team members",
        completed: 0,
        priority: "medium",
        due_date: "2025-12-05",
      },
      {
        title: "Fix login bug",
        description: "Resolve authentication timeout issue reported by users",
        completed: 1,
        priority: "high",
        due_date: "2025-12-01",
      },
      {
        title: "Update dependencies",
        description: "Update npm packages to latest stable versions",
        completed: 0,
        priority: "low",
        due_date: "2025-12-20",
      },
      {
        title: "Team meeting preparation",
        description: "Prepare slides and agenda for weekly standup",
        completed: 1,
        priority: "medium",
        due_date: "2025-12-02",
      },
      {
        title: "Refactor database queries",
        description: "Optimize slow queries and add proper indexing",
        completed: 0,
        priority: "medium",
        due_date: "2025-12-10",
      },
    ]);

    console.log("Sample todo data inserted");
  }

  // Log current data
  const todos = db
    .prepare("SELECT * FROM todos ORDER BY created_at DESC")
    .all();
  console.log("Current todos in database:", todos);
}

/**
 * Initialize the database
 * Must be called after app.whenReady()
 */
export function initDatabase() {
  const dbPath = getDatabasePath();
  console.log("Database location:", dbPath);

  // 🔥 Remove verbose logging in production for better performance
  db = new Database(dbPath, { verbose: console.log });

  // 🔥 Performance optimizations
  // WAL mode allows multiple readers and better concurrency
  db.pragma("journal_mode = WAL");

  // Increase cache size from default 2MB to 10MB (10000 pages * 1KB)
  db.pragma("cache_size = 10000");

  // Store temporary tables in memory instead of disk
  db.pragma("temp_store = MEMORY");

  // Synchronous mode: NORMAL is faster and safe with WAL mode
  db.pragma("synchronous = NORMAL");

  // Memory-mapped I/O for faster reads (30MB)
  db.pragma("mmap_size = 30000000");

  console.log("Database optimizations applied");

  // Initialize schema first
  initSchema();

  // Seed with sample data
  seedDatabase();

  return db;
}

/**
 * Get the database instance
 */
export function getDatabase(): Database.Database {
  if (!db) {
    throw new Error("Database not initialized. Call initDatabase() first.");
  }
  return db;
}

/**
 * Close the database connection
 */
export function closeDatabase() {
  try {
    // If you want to be extra safe and use better-sqlite3's flag:
    if (!db || !(db as any).open) {
      console.log("Database connection is already closed");
      db = null;
      return;
    }

    db.pragma("wal_checkpoint(TRUNCATE)");
    db.close();
    console.log("Database connection closed");

    db = null;
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error closing database:", error);
  }
}
```

Update `src/electron/main.ts` to intialise database and close it on shutdown

```typescript
import { app, BrowserWindow } from "electron";

import path from "node:path";
import { isDev } from "./util.js";
import { closeDatabase, initDatabase } from "./database.js";

function createWindow() {
  const win = new BrowserWindow({
    width: 800,
    height: 600,
    webPreferences: {
      nodeIntegration: false,
      contextIsolation: true,
    },
  });

  if (isDev()) {
    win.loadURL("http://localhost:5123");
  } else {
    win.loadFile(path.join(app.getAppPath(), "/dist-react/index.html"));
  }
}

app.whenReady().then(() => {
  initDatabase();
  createWindow();

  app.on("activate", () => {
    if (BrowserWindow.getAllWindows().length === 0) {
      createWindow();
    }
  });
});

app.on("window-all-closed", () => {
  if (process.platform !== "darwin") {
    closeDatabase();
    app.quit();
  }
});

// Close database on app quit
app.on("quit", () => {
  if (process.platform === "darwin") {
    closeDatabase();
  }
});
```

When you run `npm install && npm run build && npm run dev` locally a database should be created.

---

## Best Practices

1. **Separation of Concerns**: Keep renderer, electron, and shared code in separate directories
2. **Path Aliases**: Configure aliases in both root and electron tsconfig files
3. **Environment Detection**: Use `isDev()` utility to handle development vs. production paths
4. **Hash Routing**: Always use `createHashHistory()` for TanStack Router in Electron
5. **Native Modules**: Remember to configure `asarUnpack` for native dependencies like better-sqlite3
6. **Database Location**: Store production databases in user data directory, not app directory

---

## Troubleshooting

### Module Resolution Issues

- Ensure path aliases are configured in both root and electron tsconfig files
- Verify `baseUrl` and `paths` match your project structure

### SQLite3 Build Errors

- Run `npm run rebuild` after installing or updating dependencies
- Check that `electron-builder install-app-deps` runs in postinstall
- The issue occurs because native Node modules like better-sqlite3 need to be compiled specifically for Electron's Node.js version (NODE_MODULE_VERSION 140 in your case), not the system Node.js version (131).

### White Screen on Load

- Verify `main` field in package.json points to `dist-electron/main.js`
- Check browser console for path resolution errors
- Ensure `createHashHistory()` is used in router configuration

---

## Additional Resources

- [Electron Documentation](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/latest)
- [TanStack Router](https://tanstack.com/router)
- [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/)
- [electron-builder](https://www.electron.build/)

---

## License

[Your chosen license]

```

```

Commit message:

Adding todo handler with preload and exposing it to renderer

README.md, after:

# Electron + React + TanStack Router Application Setup Guide

A comprehensive guide for scaffolding a modern desktop application using Electron, React, TanStack Router, and optionally Java Spring Boot for backend services.

---

## 1. Create the Java Backend (Optional)

If you need a Java backend, generate one using [Spring Initializr](https://start.spring.io/) with your required dependencies.

---

## 2. Set Up the Electron Renderer using Vite + React

Create the frontend application:

```bash
npm create vite@latest frontend
```

Select React and TypeScript when prompted.

Install TanStack Router, Tailwind CSS, shadcn/ui, Storybook, and other dependencies as needed.

---

## 3. Restructure the Frontend Codebase

- Move React code → `src/renderer`
- Create Electron main process → `src/electron`
- Add a shared folder → `src/shared`

```
electron-app/
├── src/
│   ├── renderer/          # React UI code
│   │   ├── components/
│   │   ├── routes/
│   │   └── main.tsx
│   ├── electron/          # Electron main process
│   │   ├── main.ts
│   │   ├── preload.ts
│   │   ├── database.ts
│   │   ├── pathResolver.ts
│   │   ├── util.ts
│   │   └── tsconfig.json
│   └── shared/            # Shared utilities and types
├── dist-react/            # Built React application (gitignore)
├── dist-electron/         # Compiled Electron code (gitignore)
├── electron-builder.json
└── package.json
```

This creates a clean separation between the UI, desktop logic, and shared modules.

---

## 4. Update `vite.config.ts`

- TanStack Router is configured to auto-generate route trees
- Path aliases are set
- Dev server uses port 5123
- Build output is `dist-react`

```typescript
import { defineConfig } from "vite";
import react from "@vitejs/plugin-react";
import { TanStackRouterVite } from "@tanstack/router-vite-plugin";

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [react(), TanStackRouterVite()],
  server: {
    port: 5123,
  },
  build: {
    outDir: "dist-react",
  },
  resolve: {
    alias: {
      "@shared": "/src/shared",
      "@renderer": "/src/renderer",
    },
  },
});
```

---

## 5. Update `index.html`

Ensure the entry point matches your new structure:

```html
<script type="module" src="/src/renderer/main.tsx"></script>
```

---

## 6. Test the React Renderer

```bash
npm run dev
```

Confirm the UI runs on `http://localhost:5123`.

---

## 7. Install Electron and Native Modules

```bash
npm install electron electron-builder better-sqlite3 cross-env npm-run-all @types/better-sqlite3 electron-rebuild
```

---

## 8. Create the Electron Main Process

Inside `src/electron`, create:

- `main.ts`
- `tsconfig.json`

### `src/electron/main.ts` (with explanation comments)

```typescript
import { app, BrowserWindow } from "electron";
import path from "node:path";
import { isDev } from "./util.js";

// Creates the browser window instance where your React UI will load
function createWindow() {
  const win = new BrowserWindow({
    width: 800,
    height: 600,
    webPreferences: {
      nodeIntegration: false,
      contextIsolation: true,
    },
  });

  // Load from dev server in development, from built files in production
  if (isDev()) {
    win.loadURL("http://localhost:5123");
  } else {
    win.loadFile(path.join(app.getAppPath(), "/dist-react/index.html"));
  }
}

app.whenReady().then(() => {
  createWindow();

  // macOS-specific behavior: reopen a window if dock icon is clicked
  app.on("activate", () => {
    if (BrowserWindow.getAllWindows().length === 0) {
      createWindow();
    }
  });
});

// Quit when all windows are closed (except on macOS)
app.on("window-all-closed", () => {
  if (process.platform !== "darwin") {
    app.quit();
  }
});
```

---

## 9. Create `src/electron/tsconfig.json` (with comments)

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    // Enables strict type checking for safer TypeScript
    "strict": true,

    // Target modern JavaScript for Electron/Node
    "target": "ESNext",

    // Use NodeNext so Node.js-style imports work
    "module": "NodeNext",

    // Output for compiled Electron JS goes here
    "outDir": "../../dist-electron",

    // Skip type checking for .d.ts libs for faster builds
    "skipLibCheck": true,

    // Resolves modules using Node.js resolution rules
    "moduleResolution": "NodeNext"
  }
}
```

---

## 10. **IMPORTANT:** Update the Root TypeScript Configuration

Electron uses **two tsconfig layers**:

1. `electron-app/tsconfig.json` (root)
2. `src/electron/tsconfig.json` (local)

You **must** update the root `tsconfig.json` to ensure aliases work in both Electron and the renderer.

Example:

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "baseUrl": "./src",
    "paths": {
      "@shared/*": ["shared/*"],
      "@renderer/*": ["renderer/*"],
      "@electron/*": ["electron/*"]
    }
  },
  "exclude": ["node_modules", "dist-react", "dist-electron"]
}
```

This ensures:

- Electron main process can import shared modules cleanly
- Your preload scripts (if added later) also resolve paths
- VSCode and TypeScript understand your aliases globally

---

## 11. Update `package.json` (with explanatory comments)

```json
{
  "name": "your-app-name",
  "version": "0.0.0",
  "private": true,
  "description": "Your app description",
  "author": {
    "name": "Your Name"
  },

  // Required for Electron to know what file to run after build
  "main": "dist-electron/main.js",

  "type": "module",

  "scripts": {
    // Install native dependencies after npm install
    "postinstall": "electron-builder install-app-deps && npm run rebuild",

    // Rebuild native modules for Electron
    "rebuild": "electron-rebuild -f -w better-sqlite3",

    // Builds React + Electron TypeScript
    "build": "vite build && tsc",

    // Development: runs React server and Electron in parallel
    "dev": "npm-run-all --parallel dev:react dev:electron",

    // Development command for React UI
    "dev:react": "vite",

    // Development command for Electron main process
    "dev:electron": "npm run transpile:electron && cross-env NODE_ENV=development electron .",

    // Compiles TypeScript → JavaScript using the electron tsconfig
    "transpile:electron": "tsc --project src/electron/tsconfig.json",

    // Build distribution packages for each platform
    "dist:win": "npm run transpile:electron && npm run build && electron-builder --config electron-builder.json --win --x64",
    "dist:mac": "npm run transpile:electron && npm run build && electron-builder --config electron-builder.json --mac --arm64",
    "dist:linux": "npm run transpile:electron && npm run build && electron-builder --config electron-builder.json --linux --x64",

    "lint": "eslint",
    "test": "vitest run"
  }
}
```

---

## 12. Build and Run the Electron App

Build everything:

```bash
npm run build
```

You should now have:

- `dist-react/` → built React UI
- `dist-electron/` → compiled Electron code

Ensure both directories are **gitignored**.

Then run Electron in development mode:

```bash
npm run dev
```

This will start the React server and launch Electron with hot-reload support.

---

## 13. Configure TanStack Router for Electron (Hash History)

Because Electron doesn't use browser navigation, change to `createHashHistory()`:

```typescript
import { createHashHistory, createRouter } from "@tanstack/react-router";
import { routeTree } from "./routeTree.gen";

const router = createRouter({
  routeTree,
  defaultPreload: "intent",
  scrollRestoration: true,
  defaultStructuralSharing: true,
  defaultPreloadStaleTime: 0,

  // Key part for Electron: use hash-based history
  history: createHashHistory(),
});
```

📘 [TanStack Router History Types Documentation](https://tanstack.com/router/v1/docs/framework/react/guide/history-types)

---

## 14. Add Electron Builder to Package Application

To package the application for installation on Windows, Mac, or Linux, create `electron-builder.json`:

```json
{
  "appId": "com.yourcompany.yourapp",
  "icon": "./src/renderer/assets/app-icon.png",
  "productName": "Your App Name",
  "directories": {
    "output": "dist",
    "buildResources": "src/renderer/assets"
  },
  "files": [
    "dist-electron",
    "dist-react",
    "package.json",
    "!node_modules/@esbuild/**/*"
  ],

  // better-sqlite3 uses native C bindings, so it needs to be unpacked
  "asarUnpack": ["node_modules/better-sqlite3/**/*"],

  "nativeRebuilder": "sequential",
  "npmRebuild": true,
  "buildDependenciesFromSource": true,

  "win": {
    "target": ["nsis", "portable", "msi"]
  },
  "nsis": {
    "oneClick": false,
    "allowToChangeInstallationDirectory": true
  },
  "mac": {
    "target": ["dmg", "zip"]
  },
  "linux": {
    "target": ["AppImage", "deb"],
    "category": "Utility"
  }
}
```

Run `npm run dist:win` and it should package your application for windows.

---

## 15. Create Path Resolvers for Development and Production

### Create `src/electron/util.ts`

Determine what environment we are in:

```typescript
export function isDev(): boolean {
  return process.env.NODE_ENV === "development";
}
```

### Create `src/electron/pathResolver.ts`

Resolve paths for both development and production environments:

```typescript
import { app } from "electron";
import path from "path";
import fs from "node:fs";
import { isDev } from "./util.js";

/**
 * Get the database file path based on environment
 * Development: Store in project root
 * Production: Store in user data directory
 */
export function getDatabasePath(): string {
  if (isDev()) {
    // Dev: Store in project root
    return "app-database.db";
  } else {
    // Production: Store in user data directory
    const userDataPath = app.getPath("userData");

    // Ensure directory exists
    if (!fs.existsSync(userDataPath)) {
      fs.mkdirSync(userDataPath, { recursive: true });
    }

    return path.join(userDataPath, "app-database.db");
  }
}

export function getPreloadPath(): string {
  return path.join(
    app.getAppPath(),
    isDev() ? "." : "..",
    "/dist-electron/electron/preload.cjs"
  );
}

export function getUIPath(): string {
  return path.join(app.getAppPath(), "/dist-react/index.html");
}

export function getAssetPath(): string {
  return path.join(app.getAppPath(), isDev() ? "." : "..", "/src/assets");
}
```

Now when you run `npm run dev`, both the React server and Electron app will start. The Electron window will use the React dev server with hot reloading enabled.

---

## 16. Adding Database and Connection

Create `src/electron/database.ts` for initial database creation and optional seeding with SQLite3:

```typescript
import Database from "better-sqlite3";
import { getDatabasePath } from "./pathResolver.js";

let db: Database.Database | null = null;

/**
 * Initialize database schema
 * Creates all necessary tables if they don't exist
 */
function initSchema() {
  if (!db) return;

  // Create todos table
  db.exec(`
    CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS todos (
      id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT,
      title TEXT NOT NULL,
      description TEXT,
      completed INTEGER DEFAULT 0,
      priority TEXT DEFAULT 'medium',
      due_date TEXT,
      created_at TEXT DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
      updated_at TEXT DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
    )
  `);

  // 🔥 Create indexes for faster queries
  db.exec(`
    CREATE INDEX IF NOT EXISTS idx_todos_completed ON todos(completed);
    CREATE INDEX IF NOT EXISTS idx_todos_priority ON todos(priority);
    CREATE INDEX IF NOT EXISTS idx_todos_due_date ON todos(due_date);
  `);

  console.log("Database schema initialized");
}

/**
 * Seed the database with sample data
 * Only runs if tables are empty
 */
function seedDatabase() {
  if (!db) return;

  // Seed todos table if empty
  const todoCount = db.prepare("SELECT COUNT(*) as count FROM todos").get() as {
    count: number;
  };

  if (todoCount.count === 0) {
    const insertTodo = db.prepare(
      "INSERT INTO todos (title, description, completed, priority, due_date) VALUES (@title, @description, @completed, @priority, @due_date)"
    );

    const insertManyTodos = db.transaction((todos) => {
      for (const todo of todos) insertTodo.run(todo);
    });

    insertManyTodos([
      {
        title: "Complete project documentation",
        description: "Write comprehensive README and API documentation",
        completed: 0,
        priority: "high",
        due_date: "2025-12-15",
      },
      {
        title: "Review pull requests",
        description: "Review and merge pending PRs from team members",
        completed: 0,
        priority: "medium",
        due_date: "2025-12-05",
      },
      {
        title: "Fix login bug",
        description: "Resolve authentication timeout issue reported by users",
        completed: 1,
        priority: "high",
        due_date: "2025-12-01",
      },
      {
        title: "Update dependencies",
        description: "Update npm packages to latest stable versions",
        completed: 0,
        priority: "low",
        due_date: "2025-12-20",
      },
      {
        title: "Team meeting preparation",
        description: "Prepare slides and agenda for weekly standup",
        completed: 1,
        priority: "medium",
        due_date: "2025-12-02",
      },
      {
        title: "Refactor database queries",
        description: "Optimize slow queries and add proper indexing",
        completed: 0,
        priority: "medium",
        due_date: "2025-12-10",
      },
    ]);

    console.log("Sample todo data inserted");
  }

  // Log current data
  const todos = db
    .prepare("SELECT * FROM todos ORDER BY created_at DESC")
    .all();
  console.log("Current todos in database:", todos);
}

/**
 * Initialize the database
 * Must be called after app.whenReady()
 */
export function initDatabase() {
  const dbPath = getDatabasePath();
  console.log("Database location:", dbPath);

  // 🔥 Remove verbose logging in production for better performance
  db = new Database(dbPath, { verbose: console.log });

  // 🔥 Performance optimizations
  // WAL mode allows multiple readers and better concurrency
  db.pragma("journal_mode = WAL");

  // Increase cache size from default 2MB to 10MB (10000 pages * 1KB)
  db.pragma("cache_size = 10000");

  // Store temporary tables in memory instead of disk
  db.pragma("temp_store = MEMORY");

  // Synchronous mode: NORMAL is faster and safe with WAL mode
  db.pragma("synchronous = NORMAL");

  // Memory-mapped I/O for faster reads (30MB)
  db.pragma("mmap_size = 30000000");

  console.log("Database optimizations applied");

  // Initialize schema first
  initSchema();

  // Seed with sample data
  seedDatabase();

  return db;
}

/**
 * Get the database instance
 */
export function getDatabase(): Database.Database {
  if (!db) {
    throw new Error("Database not initialized. Call initDatabase() first.");
  }
  return db;
}

/**
 * Close the database connection
 */
export function closeDatabase() {
  try {
    // If you want to be extra safe and use better-sqlite3's flag:
    if (!db || !(db as any).open) {
      console.log("Database connection is already closed");
      db = null;
      return;
    }

    db.pragma("wal_checkpoint(TRUNCATE)");
    db.close();
    console.log("Database connection closed");

    db = null;
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error closing database:", error);
  }
}
```

Update `src/electron/main.ts` to intialise database and close it on shutdown

```typescript
import { app, BrowserWindow } from "electron";

import path from "node:path";
import { isDev } from "./util.js";
import { closeDatabase, initDatabase } from "./database.js";

function createWindow() {
  const win = new BrowserWindow({
    width: 800,
    height: 600,
    webPreferences: {
      nodeIntegration: false,
      contextIsolation: true,
    },
  });

  if (isDev()) {
    win.loadURL("http://localhost:5123");
  } else {
    win.loadFile(path.join(app.getAppPath(), "/dist-react/index.html"));
  }
}

app.whenReady().then(() => {
  initDatabase();
  createWindow();

  app.on("activate", () => {
    if (BrowserWindow.getAllWindows().length === 0) {
      createWindow();
    }
  });
});

app.on("window-all-closed", () => {
  if (process.platform !== "darwin") {
    closeDatabase();
    app.quit();
  }
});

// Close database on app quit
app.on("quit", () => {
  if (process.platform === "darwin") {
    closeDatabase();
  }
});
```

When you run `npm install && npm run build && npm run dev` locally a database should be created.

## 17. Creating and exposing IPC API for intracting with Database

You need to create a few files example can be found in the repo check the `electron-app\src\electron\ipc` this contains setting up the types and the handler and then create the file `electron-app\src\electron\preload.cts` this is what will expose a secure API to the renderer which it can use to interact with the database. and make sure to include the preload in main.ts.

---

## Best Practices

1. **Separation of Concerns**: Keep renderer, electron, and shared code in separate directories
2. **Path Aliases**: Configure aliases in both root and electron tsconfig files
3. **Environment Detection**: Use `isDev()` utility to handle development vs. production paths
4. **Hash Routing**: Always use `createHashHistory()` for TanStack Router in Electron
5. **Native Modules**: Remember to configure `asarUnpack` for native dependencies like better-sqlite3
6. **Database Location**: Store production databases in user data directory, not app directory

---

## Troubleshooting

### Module Resolution Issues

- Ensure path aliases are configured in both root and electron tsconfig files
- Verify `baseUrl` and `paths` match your project structure

### SQLite3 Build Errors

- Run `npm run rebuild` after installing or updating dependencies
- Check that `electron-builder install-app-deps` runs in postinstall
- The issue occurs because native Node modules like better-sqlite3 need to be compiled specifically for Electron's Node.js version (NODE_MODULE_VERSION 140 in your case), not the system Node.js version (131).

### White Screen on Load

- Verify `main` field in package.json points to `dist-electron/main.js`
- Check browser console for path resolution errors
- Ensure `createHashHistory()` is used in router configuration

---

## Additional Resources

- [Electron Documentation](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/latest)
- [TanStack Router](https://tanstack.com/router)
- [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/)
- [electron-builder](https://www.electron.build/)

---

## License

[Your chosen license]

```

```
